People would rather live in
homes regardless of its grayness.
If we walk far enough,
says Dorothy,
we shall sometime
come to someplace.
Mommy! Mommy!
I thought you
took him to school.
Yes. That was this morning.
- What time is it now?
- Like 4:30.
- It's late.
- Yeah.
We'll be leaving in
a couple of minutes.
- I need to talk to Cody for a minute.
- Sure.
Cody. What I'm about to
tell you is very important.
Mommy, are you mad at me?
No, baby, I'm not mad at you.
I just want you to pay
close attention to me, okay?
Only mommy is inside your heart.
And only Cody
is inside Mommy's heart.
No one else. Okay?
- Okay?
- Okay.
Hello?
She's out all day. Nobody knows where
she goes. Why would she have herself...
I'm home.
Honey, we're in here.
Why are you all
sitting in the dark?
Hi.
- Did you have a good day?
- Busy.
Kiss.
Are you going to say hello,
or are we invisible to you?
Hello, mother.
And Carmen?
- Hello, Carmen.
- Hi.
I'm happy to see you've
taken your camera with you.
Did you get some good shots?
- Yes, I think so.
- Yeah? Great.
Pizza? It's so unhealthy.
It's so greasy.
We didn't know
what time you'd be back.
- So we just ordered.
- Yeah. It's actually pretty good.
I can warm you up a slice.
No, thank you.
How about a sandwich?
Take me two minutes.
No, that's okay.
- Have you eaten today?
- Yes. I stopped and had a salad.
Where have you been?
Out.
Out?
What is that supposed to mean?
Your cell phone
is always turned off.
No one knows where
you are or where you're going.
So what? Now I have to report to you
where I'm going and what I'm doing?
Not a report, it's courtesy.
What on earth are you wearing?
What are you wearing?
What do you mean?
Where did you go?
What did you do?
Shh! Shh! He's asleep.
I can see that.
Hmm.
Where did you get
this Wizard of Oz book?
It was in the bag you left on the
bench at the playground this afternoon.
Really?
Yeah.
I think you are
wrong to want a heart.
It makes most people unhappy.
If you only knew it, you
are in luck not to have a heart.
Why are you crying?
Tell me what's wrong.
Nothing. I'm fine.
Kiss me.
You don't want to kiss me?
Goldie and
Carmen are downstairs.
So what?
Oh, God!
You never have time for me.
You always have something to do.
There's always someone here.
Don't you find that strange?
We're never alone.
And yet, I feel so deeply alone.
I came home.
You weren't here.
I asked Carmen to order pizza.
- We opened a bottle of wine.
- Hmm.
And waited.
I don't understand
why you're making a big deal.
Maybe you would understand
if I were to draft a legal brief
explaining how violated and
trespassed I feel in my own home?
What on Earth
are you talking about?
Even when I speak in your lingo,
I don't make sense.
So just forget it.
You don't understand me.
No. I don't understand you.
Why do you always say
the wrong thing to upset her?
Every little thing
bothers her nowadays.
Mother.
- I need to ask you a favor.
- Yes?
Never ever show up in my house
again, without calling first.
Elyse?
Carmen. Dear Carmen.
You are never to have dinner
with my husband alone
unless I invite you.
Goldie invited me.
- I don't give a fuck if Santa Claus invited you.
- Stop it!
I get it.
I can respect house rules.
You've made
yourself perfectly clear.
You are way out of line,
talking to us in this manner.
It's time you grow up and stop acting like a
spoiled, entitled, narcissistic little brat
throwing tantrums for attention.
Attention? Hah!
Grow up.
Get out of my house!
What was that about?
She's desperate
for attention, sweetheart.
I think she needs help.
It's true.
One minute she's laughing,
dancing, singing.
She tells me she loves me.
The next minute, she hates me.
She's crying,
off-the-wall angry.
Has this look like
she wants to kill me.
Fuck!
- Elyse?
- I hate her!
Honey?
Sweetheart, sweetheart.
- What?
- Stop, stop, stop!
- No.
- It's okay. It's okay.
It's okay. Calm down.
Calm down. Calm down.
- Calm down.
- I hate her!
She's done this
my whole fucking life.
- I want to die.
- Shh! Shh!
It's okay.
Sweetheart, I think
you need to see a doctor.
I have someone.
Michael recommended.
You've been talking to people
in the office about me?
I can't believe you.
No, no, no. Not at all.
- Michael's a friend.
- So what, he's your friend.
I don't want you talking to
people in the office about me.
This is our private life.
Sweetheart,
you need to see a doctor.
And you need to
get back on medication.
No. No.
I'm not seeing a doctor, and I'm
not getting back on medication.
Why am I not allowed to have
feelings with...
without being told there's
something wrong with me?
Sweetheart,
Michael's doctor saved his life.
His wife left him.
She took their kids.
He was almost disbarred.
Now he's doing great.
I don't give a shit
about Michael.
Okay, I can see this
conversation is going nowhere.
Hello? Hi, Brian.
Yes, this a good time.
Yes.
We can do that.
Sure.
Mm-hmm.
I think we can
wrap it up next week.
I'll call you tomorrow.
After lunch.
Oh, give my love
to Laura and the kids.
Yup, bye.
Can we talk?
What's so important?
What have I done wrong?
You make it pretty
obvious you don't like me.
- Poor you.
- Oh, give me a break.
Can't you just talk to me,
woman-to-woman?
Unless, in your eyes I'm simply
the housekeeper's daughter.
Not allowed to address you
directly,
and always to be restricted
to the maid's quarters.
If that's how you see me,
I can't continue living here.
Always playing
the little victim.
I'm not the victim, but I
do want know what's going on.
You want to know
that the fuck is going on?
Yes, I do.
You're too God damned familiar
with my husband.
You don't respect our space.
Now I see.
Goldie was right.
What bothers you is I work
at the firm with Steven.
You got the job at the firm
because of me.
Oh, okay. Well, how gracious of you.
Thank you.
It's late. Goodnight.
Carmen. Wait.
The truth is I feel like
I'm slowly losing my mind.
And I don't know
what to do about it.
I can see the damage that I am
causing you and everyone in my life.
I see your pain.
I feel it.
You know I'm here
for you and Steven.
Yes, I know.
So, Steven
recommended I see a doctor.
He mentioned,
a Michael in your office.
Yeah. Michael Davis.
I don't know him that well,
but I heard he was in treatment
for depression or addiction.
I don't know.
I might go see this doctor.
Good idea.
Well, good night.
Good night, Elyse.
Sorry you're caught
in the middle of all this.
It's painful to watch.
I know.
I know it's none of my business, and
perhaps I'm overstepping my boundaries, but
I think Elyse is suffering
from something very serious.
I agree.
Do you think it would help
the situation if I move out?
Give up my internship with you?
I can go to another law firm.
I do have other options.
No.
You're not going anywhere.
You working at the
firm is not the problem.
Maybe it is. Steven, please, listen to me.
You're a great husband.
And you give her everything.
You work so hard.
You have this beautiful
home, but no one's happy.
It's tragic.
You're absolutely right.
This place is an empty
shell of vanished dreams.
Don't say that.
Elyse told me you
mentioned Michael Davis?
And that you want
her to see his doctor?
She said she wants to go.
She knows something isn't right.
She said that?
Yeah, she did.
Thank you. Gracias.
Buenas Noches and good evening.
With us on saxophone,
we have Oscar Lopez.
I'll have one more.
- And on Spanish guitar...
- One more coming up.
- The first number of the evening is...
- Make it a double.
...Bésame mucho.
- Are you sure?
- Yeah, I'm sure, make it a double.
And I want a shot on the side.
Mm. Mm.
- Can I buy you a drink?
- Can't drink on the job.
No.
I bet you could
if you really wanted to.
This one's on me.
But I dare you to
go onstage and dance.
- I love a dare.
- That's what I thought.
Thank you.
- Good morning.
Oh.
I just had a crazy dream.
I was at a Latin night club.
The place was packed.
And I started
dancing through the crowd.
Carmen was onstage singing.
- Our Carmen?
- Yes.
Your Carmen.
I'm teasing.
Why can't we go out?
Have some fun?
Go dance. Drink. Live it up.
Sure. Why not?
Why not?
Can you believe, Carmen on stage?
Singing?
In the dream?
Yes. In the dream.
I have to leave.
I'm running late.
- I love you.
- Love you, too.
- What time will you be back?
- Seven.
- You'll call me from the office?
- I will.
I love you, baby.
They're claiming
they have a witness.
Uh, let's wait and see.
Okay. I'm drafting up the
papers this morning.
I'll call you later to go
over the questions you have.
Right. Okay.
"California Bar Exam
Total Prep."
Oh, here you are.
You barely touched your breakfast.
Yeah, I'm not hungry.
How was Cody
on the way to school?
He seemed a little tired.
Why?
For some reason he
had a hard time falling asleep.
Oh.
So, tell me,
what can I do for you?
Why are you here?
- Escher. You have two Eschers.
- Mm-hmm.
- Are they originals?
- No prints.
Reproductions.
- You like Escher?
- Oh, I love Escher.
I love everything
about his work.
So full of infinite mystery.
Great artist.
Huh. Pretty impressive,
isn't he?
Hmm. I also love
Maxfield Parrish.
Oh, yes.
What is it you love
about Maxfield Parrish?
His blue skies.
What do you
associate with his blue skies?
Childhood.
Excuse me.
I hate crying.
It's so silly to cry.
So stupid.
Oh, crying is
not silly or stupid.
At least, I don't think it is.
Who told you
that crying is stupid?
My mother.
- That's a beautiful tie.
- Thank you.
I love that color, burgundy red.
- Did your wife pick that out for you?
- Oh, yes.
My wife picks
out all things for me.
- What's your wife's name?
- Harriet.
It's a beautiful name. Hmm.
Don't you think it's lovely that
wives like to shop for their husbands?
I mean, I buy all of Steven's clothes.
Shirts, ties, underwear.
Everything.
So, tell me, why are you here?
How can I help you?
What can I tell you that you haven't
already heard from my mother or husband?
Oh, I don't know.
I thought, um...
perhaps it would be better
to hear it from you.
Hello?
Sorry, did you
just say something?
I asked why you came to see me.
How can I help you?
Doctor Lewis, something
tells me you're really sharp.
Well, thank you.
I think you're
pretty sharp yourself.
People's
possessions are fascinating.
Everything we collect
tells a story.
The places we've been
and the people we've met.
What is this? A ladybug?
No, it's a beetle. It's the same family
as a ladybug, but that's a scarab beetle.
Jung's window.
- Who?
- Doctor Carl Jung?
The intellectual lady and
her dream of the golden scarab?
- Ah, so you know the story?
- Yes, I do. - Yeah.
Jung and synchronicity.
- Do you believe in synchronicity?
- No.
Absolutely not.
"Absolutely not."
- What's that supposed to mean?
- Nothing.
You're pretty sure
of yourself, aren't you?
You think so?
- Are you a Jungian or a Freudian?
- Oh, I don't know.
I'm just a... just a
working doctor, that's all.
And your wife
chooses your ties for you.
Yeah.
How quaint.
Your mother told me
that you were a photographer.
Hmm.
- Hmm.
- Is that a yes or a no?
Yes, I guess I am.
Oh, good.
What are your favorite subjects?
Oh, I used to enjoy black-and-white
landscape photography.
Hmm. And no more?
Lately not much inspires me.
The world
looks so dull and gray.
I started carrying
my camera around.
I carry it because it
makes my husband happy.
So, tell me, how are
you feeling right now?
What do you mean how do I feel?
I'm fine.
Tell me about your father.
I didn't know him.
I was a baby when he died.
Oh, dear, I'm sorry.
Your mother never told me that.
I'm not surprised.
She only talks about herself.
Hmm. Well, you know, perhaps
she forgot to mention it.
Hmm. Tell me a little bit
about your mother.
- She's a lying bitch.
- Oh.
What sort of lies
does she tell you?
Everything in her life is a lie.
She lives a fabricated life.
A fairy tale. Embellished reality.
- I see.
- And you know what she told me once?
She told me my father
was so lucky to have died
before he was able to see the
horrible, nasty person I'd become.
Ah.
How old were you
when she told you that?
Eight, maybe nine.
And then she told me I was
just like my father. Worthless.
I laughed right in her face
when she said that.
- And then when I was fourteen, I ran away from home.
- Mm-hmm.
They caught me
and put me in juvenile hall.
I didn't mind being locked up.
It was better
than being with her.
You know, I saw my father and my
grandmother when I was locked up?
You saw your father
and your grandmother?
I used to hear them at night
when the other girls were asleep.
Ah, I see. Yes.
It was all lies, what my
mother said about my father.
My grandmother
told me the truth.
He worked hard
in the business he built.
He made a lot of money.
And mother loved that money.
She loved that money
so much, she killed him.
- She killed him?
- Yes, in a way.
He had a heart attack, but see, she said...
she said his heart attacked him.
Oh, it made me laugh when she said that.
"His heart attacked him."
But you know, in a way,
it made sense.
The heart, the wayward heart,
is just a wild animal,
a beast that needs to be tamed.
She warned me
that if I followed my heart,
if I followed my wayward heart, if I followed
my dreams, then I would be killed too.
- So I killed my own heart.
- Hmm.
Oh, screw her, I thought.
Fuck you, lady.
It's better that way.
Heartless, dead, same thing.
Yeah.
Why the smile, doctor?
I'm just listening.
- And?
- Well, about, uh, your mother.
People often say
things they really don't mean.
She meant it.
You better believe she meant it.
But you know, she's also
useful to me in her own way.
How?
Whatever she says, I use it
as reference to do the opposite.
- Ah!
- And she thinks she's so smart.
Doctor, are you
free this Saturday?
It's my husband's birthday and I'm
hosting a dinner party for him.
I would love for you to join.
Harriet too.
Oh, thank you.
That's most gracious of you, Elyse.
Unfortunately,
I'm not available this Saturday.
Is your husband looking
forward to the dinner party?
- Yes, I think he is.
- Ah.
Anything to avoid
being alone with me.
Why would he
avoid being alone with you?
'Cause I think my
husband's afraid of me.
Afraid of you, why?
I don't know.
Yeah.
I'm going to make
a suggestion, Elyse.
Just a recommendation.
It may be a good idea for
you to arrange some date nights.
Date nights with you?
With your husband.
- I'm just kidding.
- Yes, I know you are.
Oh, you see, couples sometimes,
you know,
they spend too much time apart
and I think a date night is a way to
have fun and get to know each other.
- Yeah. Yes. I think it's a good idea.
- Good.
Do you go on
date nights with Harriet?
Well...
Okay, I think that's it.
Wonderful session. So, next week I think your
husband's arranged with my assistant, um...
I think
it's two sessions next week.
I'm not surprised that he did.
Thank you, Elyse.
Well done.
- Hi, Elyse.
- Is my husband in his office?
Yes, of course.
I'll tell him you're here.
Hi, Jeff.
Yeah. Elyse is on her way up.
Thanks, bye.
Oh, hi.
I saw that
that report that you...
Oh, hi.
It's good to see you.
- Can I get you something to drink?
- No, I'm good. Thanks.
- Call me later?
- Okay.
Great.
I didn't know you
were coming by today.
Well, I just had my
session with Doctor Lewis.
His office is really close by.
It's just a few blocks away.
I know.
- How did it go?
- I like Doctor Lewis.
I mean, he's intelligent,
handsome.
We had a great session.
What did you talk about?
Lots of things.
But, you know, there was none of
that New Age psychobabble nonsense.
Your friend Michael
was absolutely right.
That's great.
I'm glad you liked him.
I told him about your
birthday dinner on Saturday.
I invited him.
He said he might come.
- You invited him?
- Yeah. Why not?
I know you don't like parties.
I told Doctor Lewis
about that and we both laughed.
- Who else did you invite?
- Hmm. A few friends.
My mother. Carmen.
I'm keeping it simple.
Trust me, honey, it'll be fun.
Doctor Lewis thinks
the party's a great idea.
He wants us to find
time to celebrate life.
Anyway, today's session was just about
getting the basics out of the way
and getting acquainted.
Great.
- So you'll see him again?
- Hmm.
I'm seeing him the
same time next week.
- You made sure of that.
- Great.
Sweetheart, I have an urgent
call to make in about a minute.
So I'll see you later.
- And you're going to go here.
- Mommy! Mommy!
- Are you excited about Daddy's birthday?
- I am.
It looks beautiful.
What else did you do for Daddy?
Um, I made daddy a picture.
Show me.
This is me.
That's daddy and that's you.
- Why don't I have a smiley face, baby?
- I don't know.
- Will you fix it?
- Yes. Yes, I could, Mommy.
Thank you, baby.
Yes. That's better.
I see, so that's
what influenced the jury?
Partially.
But you can't always rely on the
testimony of a paid expert witness.
Look at her. That's like her
fifth or sixth glass of champagne.
If I don't bring that cake out,
it's going to be a fiasco.
- See? - Yeah.
- She's clearly drunk.
Yes, she is. I think you're
going to have to bring the cake in.
Excuse me.
- Wait.
- Oh. Oh, right. I forgot.
You don't drink.
Let me ask you something.
You know Doctor Lewis, right?
Yes. I do.
Steven told me that you're bipolar
and you drink to feel better.
He said you almost lost your wife and
kids, but then Doctor Lewis saved your ass.
I really wouldn't
like to talk about that.
It's okay.
I met Doctor Lewis, too.
I mean, I'm not bipolar or
alcoholic or anything like that
though everyone thinks there's
something wrong with me.
What do you think?
Do you see anything wrong with me?
No. Not at all.
Look at him.
He's so uptight.
His own world.
♪ Happy birthday, dear Steven ♪
♪ Happy birthday to you ♪
Make a wish.
Happy birthday.
You fucking bitch.
You think I don't see what you're doing?
What the fuck is wrong with you?
You're a sick-ass drunk bitch.
- Stop it! Stop it!
- I'm the sick fuck?
You're in my house,
you stupid bitch!
What the hell is wrong with you?
Elyse!
Why in the hell did you throw a party,
if you're going to ruin it for everyone?
- Fuck!
- Steven?
Baby?
I'm sorry, baby. Baby?
I'm so sorry. I'm sorry!
Oh, God! Steven!
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Good morning, Elyse.
Let me see those bruises.
Okay, let me see your...
let me see your other one.
Okay, okay, okay.
I'm going to take
your blood pressure now.
Oh, so here you are.
You barely
touched your breakfast.
This will take
just a few seconds.
120/180.
Still in the normal range.
This will take
just a few seconds.
Oh, my dear, this is the worst
I've seen you.
You look really tired.
You haven't been
taking care of yourself.
I'm having trouble sleeping.
Oh.
I haven't been sleeping at all.
- How's Carmen doing?
- She's still with her family.
She was supposed
to return last week.
She left me a message
that she needed more time.
It must be a very difficult
time for her, poor sweetheart.
She's strong. She'll be okay.
It's no five-star hotel, but it certainly
is better than where they had her.
What a putrid
color on these walls.
I'm going to get some coffee.
Mr. Bridges?
Doctor Lewis will see you now.
Right this way.
Please, have a seat. The doctor
will be with you in just a moment.
- They have a morning appointment.
- Thanks.
- Who are they?
- Uh, Mr. Bridges and Mrs. Madison.
Thank you. Okay.
Hello.
Doctor Lewis, this is Mr. Bridges
and this is Mrs. Madison.
Mrs. Madison.
Mr. Bridges. Please, sit down.
. Thank you.
Thank you for coming in.
I understand that this must be
quite a difficult time for you both.
- It's incomprehensible.
- The pain is excruciating.
Yeah. I bet it is.
Last Friday when your wife was
transferred here to this hospital,
I saw her just briefly...
it was last Friday, wasn't it, Jennifer?
- Last Friday, yes.
- Yeah, last Friday.
I saw her just briefly.
It was rather late in the day
and, um,
I was only able to run a few
preliminary tests on her, you see?
When was the last time you saw your
wife, Mr. Bridges?
I've only seen her once.
And that was the, um, day
after she was admitted.
Uh, and our lawyer made several attempts
to get permission for me to visit again,
but, um, his requests
were all denied.
Well, that's normal legal
procedure in cases such as these.
Excuse me.
Yes?
No, it's 4:30.
I don't know, she talked to
Carter, I think. Check on it. Yeah.
Sorry about that.
Right, now. I need to prepare you for
some not altogether encouraging news.
Your wife continues to remain
in a state of severe catatonia.
- It's been almost three months.
- Mm-hmm.
What treatments
has she received?
Ativan.
Pretty high dosage.
Eight milligrams, uh,
three times a day.
- That's all?
- No.
ECT authorization has been submitted
and is pending court approval.
- That's, uh, ECT? That's electroconvulsive therapy?
- Right.
They can't do that
without our approval.
That decision rests with the
state, Mrs. Madison.
Not with the family.
Okay, so now I need to ask some
specific questions about her past.
Was she ever given a psychiatric
evaluation or diagnosis?
- She saw countless doctors when she was younger.
- Hmm.
Some said she was
borderline schizophrenic.
Some said bipolar.
All prescribed
different medications.
Can you remember
the medications?
Well, everything from Prozac to Lithium.
Nothing ever worked.
- Lithium?
- Lithium. - Okay.
A family friend recommended
we see his shaman in Arizona.
And so we went.
Then he recommended
we see his teacher in Peru.
Flew there, too.
They aligned her chakras.
We did drum circles.
Complete waste
of time and money.
- Hmm. Drum circles?
- Yes. - Okay.
Has she ever been hospitalized?
A long time ago.
She cut her wrist
when she was fifteen.
Attempted suicide?
- It was more a cry for attention.
- I never heard that.
Attempting suicide is never a
cry for attention, Mrs. Madison.
It's symptomatic of something
deeper, something more serious.
- Is there history of suicide in your family?
- Yes.
My daddy committed suicide.
Oh, my God!
I should have been told.
What else don't I know?
I'm sorry I didn't tell you.
It's something
we don't talk about.
Tell me, Mr. Bridges.
What was it like
living with Elyse?
Us? Well, you know, it's been hell.
Um...
- Does that answer your question?
- Yeah.
Oh, I found these strange
photographs in her camera.
- They're very odd.
- My daughter is an excellent photographer.
- Maybe they can tell you something.
- These photos are amateur.
- Thank you.
- Sure.
Oh, they're interesting.
Uh, can I keep these in her file?
- Yeah.
- There's one thing.
Obviously she's been displaying
unusual behavior for quite some time.
I'm just curious as to why you never
sought out some medical or psychiatric help
before this event.
Well, I tried.
I never thought it would, um,
escalate to this point.
In hindsight, I guess I should
have insisted she get help.
Given this
collateral information,
my preliminary diagnosis is
Borderline Personality Disorder
and Severe Depression.
And I mean, severe depression.
Catastrophic, given attempted suicide, you know?
However, our immediate goal
is to bring your wife,
your daughter out from this catatonic
state. And, uh, this afternoon...
Did that fucking ECT
authorization come through?
- It should arrive this afternoon.
- Good.
I've seen remarkable results,
even after the first treatment.
- Good morning.
Elyse, swallow.
God, God, God!
Let's step out of the room.
I know seeing your daughter in
this condition is very painful.
As difficult as it is
to understand, um,
it is possible that she's
cognizant of her environment.
Let me walk you
to the waiting room.
I need to get back to the room. The nurse's
station is there if you need anything, okay?
Thank you for
taking her out of the room.
I tried to feed her the rest of the
yogurt, but she's not swallowing.
Yeah. We removed the feeding
tube and IV on Friday, so.
It will be a little time
before her swallowing improves.
I was concerned
about the feeding tube.
Yeah.
It's definitely a good sign.
You have my cell.
Let me know when she's scheduled for ECT.
Yes. Doctor Lewis always
recommends the family be present,
so I'll definitely
be calling you.
ECT treatments
are very effective.
Yes, Doctor Lewis told me.
You'll see tremendous improvement
after a few treatments.
Hopefully, she'll be able
to start physical therapy soon.
Oh, and for that reason, would you mind bringing
Elyse some comfortable clothes and shoes?
You know?
For the therapy?
Uh, yes, of course.
Thank you.
I'll be waiting for your call.
- Good afternoon.
- Hello, doctor.
Good afternoon, Elyse.
- How is she doing? Is she eating?
- Not much.
Elyse?
I want you to try to sit up.
Help her sit up.
At the edge of the bed.
Good.
You can take your arm away.
Elyse?
Do you know where you are?
Do you know today's date?
Or the month? Or the year?
I'm going to take your arm.
Gently. Let it come with me.
That's good.
Good.
Elyse, are you aware that
there may be something wrong?
Can you describe how
you feel at this moment?
Displaying waxy flexibility,
characteristic of catatonia.
Lay her back.
The authorization
for ECT is on your desk?
Yes, doctor.
- What time is it?
- It's scheduled for 7:30 in the morning.
- 7:30. Doctor Rosenthal is set up?
- Yes. Yes. They are.
Good.
Bye, Elyse.
Elyse?
Tomorrow, 7:30.
- Good morning, Doctor Lewis.
- Good morning.
Everything ready? Good.
Mr. Bridges, this is Doctor
Rosenthal, Mr. Bridges.
Your wife is in good
hands with Doctor Rosenthal.
And I'll come back as soon as
the treatment is over. All right?
- Doctor Rosenthal? - Thank you, Doctor.
- It's all yours.
Thank you for being here.
I want to walk you through the procedure.
Mrs. Bridges, my name
is Doctor Rosenthal.
Today we're going to be performing
ECT to treat your catatonia.
You'll be put under anesthesia
so you shouldn't feel a thing.
And the court has authorized
this treatment for you.
Do you have any questions?
Anything you want to say?
Are there any long term repercussions
I should be concerned with?
No.
No cumulative adverse effects.
Okay. Let's begin.
What a beautiful woman.
She did well
for her first treatment.
She should come to very shortly.
Probably within the hour.
- Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
Oh, they're so beautiful!
Oh! My big belly!
- Mm, I love you.
- I love you.
Doesn't she look like a ballet dancer?
She's like...
Ah, so beautiful.
Stay with me.
Back up.
Could this be
any more beautiful?
- They look like dancers, these trees.
- Oh, I know.
We're having a baby.
I love you.
Oh, look at this one!
Oh, oh, I love it.
This'll look great in the new house.
I want to blow them up.
- I love you.
I'm getting you!
How much do you love me?
Oh, that much?
This much!
Show me your tummy.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, you look good. Oh!
You're silly!
I also brought some
clothes like you asked.
Thank you.
She'll be more comfortable.
Is that the pillow?
It's roses.
She loved roses.
She loves roses.
One second.
Ask Doctor Lewis to call me.
- Will do.
- Yeah.
Well, now that I know you love roses, I'll
bring you one from my mother's garden, okay?
Would you like a
white or a red rose?
Elyse? Well, guess what?
I've just become a mind reader.
I think you prefer red roses.
Don't you?
- Steven?
- Coming.
My friend Bianca, she'll be here between four
and six to pick up the rest of my things.
I hope that's okay.
I'm here all day.
Oh, God! I told myself
I wasn't going to do this.
Don't be a stranger, hmm?
This is always home for you.
Thank you.
You'll always be
a big part of my life.
- Hi, Lindsey.
- Hi.
- I guess about an hour?
- That sounds good.
I'll be back.
Hi, Elyse, I'm Lindsey.
I'm going to
help you walk today.
I'm going to put one hand
on each rest here. Good.
And now, lean forward
and push up to stand.
And now let me have
you take some steps forward.
You're doing great.
- Hello, Mrs. Madison.
- Hello, dear.
Oh, sweetheart.
You look so beautiful.
Your hair's getting long.
And you're finally wearing that
sweater I bought you in Italy.
It's one hundred
percent cashmere.
And I have another surprise for you.
Wait till you see it.
Now stand.
Let's stand. Come on.
Walk to the bed.
Today is the first day she's walking.
It's great.
It's a miracle.
I have a surprise for you.
Look. Ta-da!
Lip gloss.
Mascara.
Moisturizer.
And these little clips
for your hair.
There it is.
Let mother freshen you up.
Yes.
Oh. So beautiful.
You never need much.
I'm so happy to
see you're feeling better.
- And soon we'll be going to occupational therapy.
- Oh!
Where you can draw, 'cause
I hear you're an amazing artist.
She is a magnificent artist.
You need to get some rest.
Oh, I love you.
Goodbye, dear.
I know Elyse
appreciates your visits.
What a sweet woman.
You're not going to believe
what I did last night.
I adopted this little guy,
Elyse.
You like cats?
Do you have a cat?
No? You don't have a cat?
Well, I haven't named him yet.
Maybe you can help me.
'Cause I was thinking of, uh,
Chianti. What do you think?
You don't like Chianti.
That's okay.
How about Bordeaux?
Bordeaux?
Bordeaux it is.
Here's your book, Elyse.
Here, let's finish this drawing.
Let go.
Okay. Perfect.
I'll be over there, okay?
Do you want to
finish your artwork today?
- Hi, Natalia.
- What do you want?
I'll be in the other room.
I want paint with you.
I'm artist.
Okay, come on.
Finish your painting.
- Why you no talk?
- Jen?
- I want paint with you. I want paint with you! I'm artist!
- That's enough.
Why you no talk? You my friend.
You my friend. We should talk, my friend.
Elyse? Everything okay, Elyse?
Everything okay?
Is this rain? No?
Would you like a walk instead?
Yes?
Yes? Okay. Okay.
Let's go. Okay, let's go.
Let's go for a walk.
I go there as often as
possible throughout the day.
I love California light.
There's something that
I find very moving about it.
In some sort of way, it reminds me of
my, uh, childhood in France.
My mom left to the US
when I was eight
to give us a better life.
So my grandmother raised me.
And for years
I resented her for doing this.
For leaving me.
Parents do the best they can.
Deep down
they all love their children.
And we can't forget that once upon a
time they were children themselves.
Who knows
what they went through?
I've come to terms with my past.
We better go.
You have an appointment
with Doctor Lewis now.
Good.
Elyse. Good morning.
Sit down, please.
- Good.
- Elyse?
Please have a seat.
Okay.
- I'll be outside, Doctor.
- No, I want you to stay. Close the door.
I want you to stay because she seems
more responsive when she's with you.
Elyse? Hello.
You remember me? Yes.
Can you tell me where you are?
This room. Your surroundings.
Good. Can you tell me
verbally where you are?
All right.
Now, I know
you're a very good artist.
I'm going to give you a
pad and paper and a pen.
I want you to draw for me your
surroundings of where you are.
Free association.
- What's that?
- She's drawing the view from the atrium.
Uh-huh.
And my cat.
She likes my cat Bordeaux.
You bring your cat to work?
No, no, Doctor.
I show her photos.
Yeah.
You can take the pad from her.
Good. Elyse?
Do you know that you're
in the Lennox State Hospital?
Do you understand?
Uh, patients with catatonia,
many make good progress
with ECT treatment.
Now, you've been here,
just over six months.
You've made minimal progress.
But I'm a little concerned, because I want
to bring you totally out of this condition.
You understand me?
Look at me.
Tell me.
Have we got a deal?
I'm so happy
to see you doing so well.
You look pretty when you smile.
You know that, right?
Can you excuse us?
- Can you excuse us?
- Yes. Yes.
- But I can't leave her alone.
- I don't give a fuck!
I've called Doctor Lewis and you
several times in the last few weeks.
Why doesn't anyone have
the courtesy to return my calls?
I've tried calling you several
and your voicemail's always full.
That's bullshit!
You can call my office.
I'll be... I'll be nearby.
I saw your face.
Like you don't
have a care in the world.
And then you see me
and it's a different face.
A face of misery and death.
That's what I see when I
look in your eyes. Death.
I haven't slept at
the house in months.
I am selling it.
Listen to these words, Elyse.
I don't know
what life has in store for you.
But I am done.
Elyse, how are you feeling?
Patient remains in a
state of severe catatonia.
It's been one year today.
And Mr. Bridges, since your last visit,
your wife has suffered
a relapse or a setback.
And up until that point
we were making fair progress.
So, as you can imagine,
we are rather disappointed and frustrated.
Thank you.
What happened?
What do you mean what happened?
I don't know who you are!
I don't know
who your daughter is!
I'm a stranger in this family.
I've always made myself
available to you, Steven.
Why didn't you call me?
What's wrong?
What are you going to give
me to take the place of my son?
Nothing will bring him back!
Nothing!
Hold on one second.
Hey, Steven. It's the office.
This is our family time!
What the fuck is she
still doing in our house?
- You know what?
- She's supposed to be here.
- You can fuck her if you want!
- Elyse! Stop it!
You can fuck her all you want!
I'm fucking over it!
You can have her!
I'm out of here!
Fuck you!
I have nightmares.
Seeing his dead
body covered in blood.
Mommy! Mommy!
Calling Dr. Lewis to room
333. Calling Dr. Lewis to room 333.
I'm sorry.
I should have told you I was coming.
- It's okay.
- She knows you're here. Come speak to her.
I woke up this morning feeling
it was time to come see you.
On the way here, I stopped by the
cemetery and put flowers for my mother.
It's their anniversary.
I don't know if I'm imagining this,
but I feel my mother is by my side.
She's with me everywhere I go.
It gives me great comfort.
You know... time?
Time is compassionate.
It has a way of healing us.
Dearest, Steven.
Yesterday I saw you and your family
at the Malibu Christmas Tree Shop.
I didn't say hello.
I felt it was inappropriate.
Congratulations,
your daughter is beautiful.
I married David five years ago.
He's very kind to me.
We live a simple life.
My mother is now in a home
for assisted living.
She turned
eighty-eight last week.
We had a little party for her.
She's very frail.
I go see her once in a while,
but she doesn't recognize me.
No idea who I am.
Strange, isn't it?
Life.
Be well.
My love always, Elyse.